JUDY WOODRUFF: And we are now
joined by the managers of the
two congressional baseball
teams that were practicing this
morning in different places.
They are Republican
Representative Joe Barton
of Texas, who, as you
just saw, was at this
morning's Republican baseball
practice, and Democratic
Representative Michael Doyle of
Pennsylvania.
Gentlemen, welcome
to the program.
Congressman Barton,
to you first.
First of all, we're so glad
that you are all right.
We saw that you were
there with your two sons.
How are you doing?
REP.
JOE BARTON: We're doing fine.
Everybody was looking
out for my two sons.
And thank gosh -- God that the
Capitol Police were there and
immediately returning fire,
which diverted the gunman
from attacking the members
who were on the field.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Did you
feel there was anything
more that could have
been done this morning?
REP.
JOE BARTON: Not really.
I mean, we practice
in a public park.
There's a dog park.
There's a YMCA by
the baseball field.
There are joggers.
There are -- it's just, you
know, most mornings, there are
people out doing their exercise
and walking their dogs.
We don't make any attempt
to restrict people from
watching the practice.
This individual who did the
shooting, some of the members
think they saw him yesterday,
and, while I thought he had
just driven in, apparently, he
had been in the area for some
time.
So, I don't -- I don't
know how you can function
in an open democracy,
especially in the House
of Representatives,
with 435 members, and
not have public access.
And, again, this game has been
played for about over 100 years.
There's never been
anything like this before.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman
Doyle, where were you
when you heard this?
And what did you think?
REP.
MIKE DOYLE (D), Pennsylvania:
So, we were in the
middle of our practice.
We were having batting practice,
and I was standing behind home
plate, you know, instructing
our batters.
And I got a text message
from one of my staff
saying, are you OK?
And I was puzzled by
the -- by the text.
And then I saw right below it
a news clip saying, shooter
at congressional baseball
practice, and realized at that
moment that it had to be over
at the Republican practice.
So I called my team off the
field, because we didn't have
much information at the time,
to get them over in the dugout,
and let them all know what
happened and what I was hearing.
And there was sort of a --
I call it a stunned silence
with most of the players.
We just couldn't
believe something like
this was happening.
And there wasn't much we
could do where we were.
So we basically just huddled up
and started saying some prayers
for our Republican colleagues
that they'd be safe and that
nobody would be hurt badly.
And, after that, you know, the
reports started to flood into
our phones and we just, you
know, were reading them
like everyone else.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman
Barton, and, again, we know that
you both were practicing for
this congressional game, annual
congressional game that's
taking place tomorrow night.
You're going ahead with it.
Is the -- I just asked Lisa
Desjardins this question, our
reporter at the Capitol, and
she said this is -- the reaction
there has been sober, that
people are -- to some extent,
members may be rethinking
whether things have
gotten too partisan.
What do you think?
REP.
JOE BARTON: Well, the reaction
here has been very supportive
of the Republicans on the
team.
Congressman Doyle and his
Democratic players have
reached out to us personally.
The speaker and Mrs.
Pelosi, the minority leader,
have talked directly.
Everybody is supportive because,
we are -- we have an R or an
D by our name, but our title
- - our title is United
States representative.
And I'm very proud to be
a member of the Congress.
And I'm proud to serve with
people like Mike Doyle.
So, you know, we feel very
blessed that we're here
to have this interview.
Had the shooter not been
attacked by the Capitol
Hill Police, who risked
their lives -- and
two of them got shot -- had he
gotten inside the fence of the
field and gotten to the first
base dugout, there were 20,
15 members, and five or six
staffers in that dugout huddled
down.
It's actually a lowered,
below-the-field dugout.
And there would have been
no place for them to run.
So, it could have
been much worse.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman
Doyle, I can see the pain
in both of your faces.
Is this a time for coming
together in some way and for
rethinking, as we said, some of
the partisanship?
REP.
MIKE DOYLE: I think all of us
are reflecting on that today.
Joe and I have been associated
with this game for quite a
while, and we have been friends
for a long time.
His son Jack is like one of
my nephews, always comes up
and asks me how I'm doing.
And I always tries to get
intelligence from Jack on what
his dad is up to, and Jack never
gives him up.
So he's a good kid that way.
(LAUGHTER)
REP.
MIKE DOYLE: But I got to tell
you, there was a real feeling
of helplessness on our part
as we stood there in the
dugout reading the reports
that were coming in.
We know -- we know
all these guys.
They're our friends.
We may have differences
politically, but they're
our friends, and we care
about them very much.
And I think all of us are
reflecting on how each one of us
individually can set an example
for the country, too, because
when people see their leaders
being uncivil towards one
another, then you start to
see the public being uncivil
towards one another and towards
their leaders.
And I think that's
got to change.
So maybe it starts with
us, and maybe this will
change some attitudes here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman
Barton, I hear and I see the
affection between the two of
you, and I am seeing and hearing
you say it exists with others.
But I think it's fair to
say, it doesn't always come
across in the news coverage.
REP.
JOE BARTON: Well, politics in
Washington is a contact sport.
But it shouldn't be a
personal animosity sport.
And with Mike and I and a lot
of other members, it's not.
I do want to apologize for
getting emotional a minute ago.
You know, Tom Hanks was the
manager of a women's baseball
team, and, in that movie, he has
the famous line, there's
no crying in baseball.
Well, there's certainly no
-- shouldn't be any crying
in congressional baseball.
And I do apologize for my
emotional outburst a minute ago.
JUDY WOODRUFF: No -- no...
(CROSSTALK)
REP.
MIKE DOYLE: I would say
there's lots of members of
Congress that get along.
We tend to not be
the ones the media is
interested in interviewing.
Oftentimes, the media's
interested in interviewing
the two that are throwing
the swords at each
other.
So, maybe the news media,
too, can reflect a little bit
on that and show some of the
positive things that
take place down here.
REP.
JOE BARTON: That's true.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that's
something for us to reflect on.
Well, we so appreciate the two
of you being together right now.
And no apology needed,
Congressman Barton.
It's entirely understandable
why you would be emotional
at a time like this.
We thank you.
We're thankful that
you are all right.
We thank you for
talking with us.
Congressman Doyle, thank you.
We thank you both.
REP.
MIKE DOYLE: Thank you.